OKTA-529773 XaaS integration guide (#3630)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/anything-as-a-source/index.md

---
title: Build an Anything-as-a-Source custom client
meta:
  - name: description
    content: This is an Anything-as-a-Source custom client developer guide to synchronize any HR source with Okta user profiles.
---

This guide outlines how to develop a custom client to manage an identity source with Okta for the Anything-as-a-Source (XaaS) integration. The custom client can be a standalone app or a component of an existing app that drives the synchronization between the HR source (the identity source) and the Okta Universal Directory.

---

**Learning outcomes**

* Learn how to use the Anything-as-a-Source API to manage a Custom Identity Source integration with Okta.

**What you need**

* [Okta Developer Edition organization](https://developer.okta.com/signup/)

> * [A Custom Identity Source](https://okta.github.io/doc_reviews/en-us/Content/Topics/users-groups-profiles/usgp-anything-as-a-source.htm) integration configured in your Okta org

Author: I'm going to update this to with the proper HOC link and alias.

> * [A Custom Identity Source](https://okta.github.io/doc_reviews/en-us/Content/Topics/users-groups-profiles/usgp-anything-as-a-source.htm) integration configured in your Okta org

Author: Theresa gave me new alias to use: `ext-anything-as-a-source`

This guide outlines the XaaS API flow so that you can develop your custom client for the XaaS integration. For XaaS integrations using Okta Workflows, see [Okta Workflows](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=wf).

## XaaS API concepts

### Import Session

The XaaS API synchronizing data flow uses an [Import Session](/docs/reference/xaas/#import-session) object to encapsulate the data upload and the data import processing tasks. You need to create an Import Session object each time you want to synchronize data from the HR source to Okta. The Import Session object uses the following `status` values to indicate each stage of the synchronization process flow.

### Import Session status

* **CREATED**: The Import Session object has been created for a specific Custom Identity Source integration and data can be loaded to the session at this stage. No data import processing has been invoked and the session can be cancelled at this stage.

> * **TRIGGERED**:  Okta is processing the loaded data in the Import Session. You can’t load new data to the Import Session object at this stage and the session can’t be cancelled. Import Sessions with this status can be viewed in the [Import Monitoring](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-view-import-monitoring-dashboard) page from the Admin Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **TRIGGERED**:  Okta is processing the loaded data in the Import Session. You can’t load new data to the Import Session object at this stage, and you can't cancel the session. You can view Import Sessions with this status in the [Import Monitoring](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-view-import-monitoring-dashboard) page from the Admin Console.
```

* **COMPLETED**:  The data in the Import Session object has been processed by Okta. You can’t upload new data to the Import Session object if it has the `COMPLETED` status. The synchronization data job is considered complete.

> * **CLOSED**: The session is cancelled and isn't available for further activity. Only Import Sessions with the `CREATED` status can be cancelled. You can't cancel a session that has been triggered or completed. Previously loaded user data is deleted from a cancelled Import Session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **CLOSED**: The session is cancelled and isn't available for further activity. You can only cancel Import Sessions with the `CREATED` status. You can't cancel a session that has been triggered or completed. Previously loaded user data is deleted from a cancelled Import Session.
```

* **EXPIRED**: This status indicates that the Import Session has timed out during the data loading stage. An Import Session with the `CREATED` status expires from 24 hours of inactivity.

### Import Session process

> You can only process one Import Session, for a specific Custom Identity Source integration, at a time to avoid conflicts. The following are additional Import Session behaviors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only process one Import Session at a time (for a specific Custom Identity Source integration) to avoid conflicts. The following are additional Import Session behaviors:
```

> * Data can only be loaded to an Import Session when it’s in the `CREATED` status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can only load data to an Import Session when it’s in the `CREATED` status.
```

* A Custom Identity Source integration can only have one active Import Session at a time. An Import Session with the `CREATED` or `TRIGGERED` status is considered active.
* You can’t process an Import Session in parallel for the same identity source.

> * A new Import Session can’t be created in less than five minutes of an active Import Session associated with the same identity source. If Okta receives a new Import Session request within five minutes of an active Import Session with the `CREATED` or the `TRIGGERED` status, Okta returns a 400 - Bad Request response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can't create a new Import Session in less than five minutes of an active Import Session associated with the same identity source. If Okta receives a new Import Session request within five minutes of an active Import Session with the `CREATED` or the `TRIGGERED` status, Okta returns a 400 - Bad Request response.
```

* If there are no API requests in 24 hours for an Import Session that has the `CREATED` status, then the status is set to `EXPIRED` and the session can no longer be used.

> **Note:** If you receive a 400 Bad Request from a create Import Session request, then ensure that there isn't an active Import Session for the same identity source. Use the [Retrieve the current Import Session](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#retrieve-the-current-import-session) request to return the current active Import Session for an identity source.

### Bulk-user-load requests

There are two types of bulk-user-load requests:

* `/bulk-upsert`: Insert or update the profile users in the bulk-user-load request
* `/bulk-delete`: Deactivate the user profiles in the bulk-user-load request

> You can load up to 200 KB of data in a single bulk-user-load (`/bulk-upsert` or `/bulk-delete`) request for an Import Session. This equates to 200 user profiles. To load more user profiles, you can make multiple bulk-user-load requests to the same session. The maximum number of bulk-user-load requests for a session is 50. If you have exhausted the maximum number of bulk-user-load requests and you still need to load more user profiles, then create another Import Session object for the additional user profiles. Keep in mind that you can only load user data to an Import Session with the `CREATED` status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can load up to 200 KB of data in a single bulk-user-load (`/bulk-upsert` or `/bulk-delete`) request for an Import Session. This equates to 200 user profiles. To load more user profiles, you can make multiple bulk-user-load requests to the same session. The maximum number of bulk-user-load requests for a session is 50. If you exhaust the maximum number of bulk-user-load requests and you still need to load more user profiles, then create another Import Session object for the additional user profiles. Keep in mind that you can only load user data to an Import Session with the `CREATED` status.
```

> **Note:** Only `"importType": "INCREMENTAL"` is currently supported for an Import Session.

### Bulk user profile data

The bulk-user-load request contains an array of [User Profile Data](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#profile-object) objects that contain the following:

> * `externalId`: Contains the unique identifier from the HR source and is assumed to be immutable (never updated for a specific user). This value is used as a key to determine if a new user needs to be created or if an existing user needs to be updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `externalId`: The unique identifier from the HR source and is assumed to be immutable (never updated for a specific user). This value is used as a key to determine if a new user needs to be created or if an existing user needs to be updated.
```

> * `profile`:  Contains the set of attributes from the HR source to synchronize with the Okta user profile. User profiles are mapped according to the attribute mappings you specified in your Custom Identity Source configuration.  See Declaration of a Custom Identity Source Schema in  [Using anything as a source](https://okta.github.io/doc_reviews/en-us/Content/Topics/users-groups-profiles/usgp-anything-as-a-source.htm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `profile`:  The set of attributes from the HR source to synchronize with the Okta user profile. User profiles are mapped according to the attribute mappings that you specified in your Custom Identity Source configuration.  See Declaration of a Custom Identity Source Schema in  [Using anything as a source](https://okta.github.io/doc_reviews/en-us/Content/Topics/users-groups-profiles/usgp-anything-as-a-source.htm).
```

> > **Note:** Only user profile data can be loaded to an Import Session object with the `"entityType": "USERS"` property. Group data load isn’t currently supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** You can only load user profile data to an Import Session object with the `"entityType": "USERS"` property. Group data load isn’t currently supported.
```

## XaaS API flow

Before you start to build your XaaS data synchronization component, you need to set up a few configuration variables:

* Your Okta org domain URL (`${yourOktaDomain}`) for API requests

> * Your Custom Identity Source ID (`${identitySourceId}`): The unique identifier you obtained from [configuring a Custom Identity Source integration](https://okta.github.io/doc_reviews/en-us/Content/Topics/users-groups-profiles/usgp-anything-as-a-source.htm) in your Okta org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your Custom Identity Source ID (`${identitySourceId}`): The unique identifier that you obtained from [configuring a Custom Identity Source integration](https://okta.github.io/doc_reviews/en-us/Content/Topics/users-groups-profiles/usgp-anything-as-a-source.htm) in your Okta org
```

> * An API Token (`${apiKey}`}: [Obtain an API token from your Okta org](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/) to make secure API calls to Okta. Use this API token in the SSWS Authorization header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An API token (`${apiKey}`}: [Obtain an API token from your Okta org](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/) to make secure API calls to Okta. Use this API token in the SSWS Authorization header.
```

    -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 
    ```

    Possible returned responses:

    * **200 OK**: The Import Session created successfully and returns an `id` property. Save the `id` value to make further API calls.

      ```json
      {
        "id": "{sessionId}",
        "identitySourceId": "{identitySourceId}",
        "status": "CREATED",
        "importType": "INCREMENTAL"
      }
      ```

      > **Note:** Only `"importType": "INCREMENTAL"` is currently supported for an Import Session.

    * **400 Bad Request**: Another active Import Session exists for the same identity source.
    * **401 Unauthorized**: The API key isn't valid.

2. [Bulk upsert user data](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#bulk-upsert-user-data):

    * Use the `id` property value returned from the created Import Session to make the [bulk upsert user data](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#bulk-upsert-user-data) request.
    * Obtain the user profiles from your HR source and add each user profile attribute into the `profiles` array. You can have up to a maximum of 200 user profiles in the array.

>     * Set `entityType` to `USERS`. Only user data is supported; group data is currently not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Set `entityType` to `USERS`. Only user data is supported. Group data isn't currently supported.
```

    * **401 Unauthorized**: The API key isn't valid.

4. Monitor the Import Session until the data processing completes by making requests for the status of the Import Session:

    ```bash
    curl -i -X GET \
      'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/identity-sources/${identitySourceId}/sessions/${sessionId} \
    -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 
    ```

    Alternatively, use the [Import Monitoring](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-view-import-monitoring-dashboard) page in the Admin Console to monitor the import process job. When the job completes, a summary of the import process appears in the Import Monitoring dashboard.

    Possible returned responses:
    * **200 OK**: The data import process completed successfully and returns the following properties:

        ```json
        {
            "id": "{sessionId}",
            "identitySourceId": "{identitySourceId}",
            "status": "COMPLETED",
            "importType": "INCREMENTAL"
        }
        ```

    * **400 Bad Request**: The Import Session ID is unknown.
    * **401 Unauthorized**: The API key isn't valid.

### Bulk deactivate user data

> When users have been deactivated or deleted from your HR source, you need to reflect that status in Okta. Okta does not delete user profile objects, it deactivates the users that are no longer active. Use these steps to deactivate a set of user data profiles from Okta.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users are deactivated or deleted from your HR source, you need to reflect that status in Okta. Okta doesn't delete user profile objects, it deactivates the users that are no longer active. Use these steps to deactivate a set of user data profiles from Okta.  
```

    * Obtain the unique user identifiers from your HR source and add each `externalId` value into the `profiles` array. You can have up to a maximum of 200 user IDs in the array.
    * Set `entityType` to `USERS`. Only user data is supported; group data is currently not supported.
    * If you need to deactivate more users, make another [bulk delete user data](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#bulk-delete-user-data) request with the same `${sessionId}` value. You can make up to 50 bulk-user-load requests for one Import Session.

    ```bash
    curl -i -X POST \
      'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/identity-sources/${identitySourceId}/sessions/${sessionId}/bulk-delete' \
    -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
        "entityType": "USERS",
        "profiles": [
          {
            "externalId": "${userId1}",
          },
          {
            "externalId": "${userId2}"
          },
          {
            "externalId": "${userId3}",
          }
        ]
    }'
    ```

    Possible returned responses:

>     * **202 Accepted** : The bulk delete operation was successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **202 Accepted**: The bulk delete operation was successful.
```

    * **400 Bad Request**: Another active Import Session exists for the same identity source.
    * **401 Unauthorized**: The API key isn't valid.

3. [Trigger the data import process](/docs/reference/api/xaas):

>     Once you've imported all your user IDs, start the processing job to deactivate users from the Okta Universal Directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    After you've imported all your user IDs, start the processing job to deactivate users from the Okta Universal Directory:
```

* **CANCELLED**: The session is considered closed by Okta and is available for archival  purposes. You can’t upload data or trigger the import process on an Import Session that is in `CANCELLED` status. Previous user data uploaded is deleted from an Import Session that is in the `CANCELLED` status. 
* **EXPIRED**: ??? This status indicates that the Import Session has timed-out during the data import processing stage.

### Import Session process

You can only process one Import Session, for a specific Custom Identity Source integration, at a time to avoid conflicts. The following are additional Import Session behaviors:

* Data can only be uploaded to an Import Session when it’s in the `CREATED` status.
* A Custom Identity Source integration can only ever have one active Import Session at a time. An Import Session with the  `CREATED` or `IN_PROGRESS` status is considered active.

> * A new Import Session can’t be created in less than five minutes after the previous Import Session associated with the same identity source was created. If Okta receives a new Import Session request within five minutes of a recently created Import Session in the `CREATE` status, Okta returns a 400 - Bad Request response.

Author: Corrected. Thanks!

> > **Note:** If you receive a 400 Bad Request from a create Import Session request, then ensure that there is no Import Session with the `CREATED` status for the same identity source. Use the `GET /identitysources/${identitySourceId}/session` request to list all the existing Import Sessions for an identity source.

Author: Corrected. Thank you

> > **???KNOWN ISSUE:** Import Sessions do not expire if left in an “CREATED” state and a further creation of new sessions will fail

Author: @murtydevarakonda-okta , please confirm the cancelled status. Currently, I have it written down as `EXPIRED` status after 24 hrs of inactivity.

> **Note:** Only user profile data can be imported to an Import Session object with the `entityName` = `USERS` property. Group data import isn’t supported.

### Bulk user profile data type

There are two types of bulk import requests:

* `UPSERT`: Insert or update the profile users in this bulk import request
* `DELETE`: Deactivate the user profiles in this bulk import request

## XaaS API flow

Before you start to build your integration component, you need to set up a few configuration variables:

* Your Okta org domain URL (`${yourOktaDomain}`): This is for XaaS API requests.
* Your Custom Identity Source ID (`${identitySourceId}`): This is the unique identifier you obtain from [configuring a Custom Identity Source integration] in your Okta org.
* An API Token (`${apiKey}`}: You need to [obtain an API token from your Okta org] to make API calls to Okta. Use this API token in the SSWS Authorization header.

Code your XaaS data synchronization component with the following generalized API flow:

1. Create an Import Session.

> 2. Load user data profile into the Import Session (if required, load multiple batches of user data).

Reviewer 2: using the /bulk-upsert and /bulk-delete calls

Author: this is a generalized flow, I have separate /bulk-upsert and /bulk-delete flows in the next section

3. Trigger the data import process.
4. Monitor the Import Session until the data processing completes.

> 5. Close the Import Session.

Reviewer 2: No.  This is wrong.  Once the data processing is complete, the session will automatically go into the COMPLETED status.  Customers doesn't need to close the session exclusively.

Once the session is triggered (to start the data processing), it cannot be closed or cancelled.

Before the session is triggered, client can cancel the session using the API 

DELETE /api/v1/identity-sources/{{identitySourceId}}/sessions/{{sessionId}}

>     > **Note:** It is good practice to close the Import Session in your custom code. Closing the Import Session sets the status to `CANCELLED` and removes all the imported user data from Okta, freeing up resources.

Reviewer 2: This is if the customer doesn't want to run an import job based on the data that was uploaded using the /bulk-upsert and /bulk-delete calls.

> <div class="full">

Reviewer 2: Please look into the latest postman collection to copy the API endpoints correctly everywhere in this PR.  I see phrases like /bulkImport, /identitysources all over the doc, which are not correct.  I can walk you through the APIs if needed.

Author: Apologies. These endpoints are updated now. Please review.

    * Set `entityName` to `USERS`. Only user import is supported; group import is not supported.
    * If you need to add more users, make another [Load user data profile](/docs/reference/api/xaas) request with the same `sessionId` value. You can make up to 50 load user data requests for one Import Session.

    ```bash
    curl -i -X POST \
      'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/identity-sources/${identitySourceId}/sessions/${sessionId}/bulk-upsert' \
    -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
        "entityName": "USERS",
        "profiles": [
            {
                "externalId": "${userId}",
                "profile": {
                    "userName": "${userName}",
                    "firstName": "${firstName}",
                    "lastName": "${lastName}",
                    "email": "${userEmail}",
                    "secondEmail": "${userEmail2}",
                    "mobilePhone": “${userMobileNumber}",
                    "homeAddress": "${userAddress}"
                }
            }
        ]
    }'
    ```

    Possible returned responses:

>     * **202 ???** : The bulk import was successful. A `batchId` value is returned.

Reviewer 2: We removed the batchId from the API response.

    * **400 Bad Request**: Another active Import Session exists for the same identity source.

>     * **403 Access Denied**

Reviewer 2: Is this 403 or 401?

Author: 403 Removed.

    -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 
    ```

    Possible returned responses:
    * **200 OK**: The data import process started successfully and returns the following properties:

        ```json
          {
            "id": "${sessionId}",
            "identitySourceId": "${identitySourceId}",
            "status": "IN_PROGRESS"
        }
        ```

    * **400 Bad Request**: Another active Import Session exists for the same identity source.
    * **403 Access Denied**

4. Monitor the Import Session until the data processing completes

    Request for status of the Import Session to verify that the import job is complete:

    ```bash
    curl -i -X GET \
      'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/identity-sources/${identitySourceId}/sessions/${sessionId} \
    -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 
    ```

    Alternatively, use the [Import Monitoring](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-view-import-monitoring-dashboard) page in the Admin Console.

    Possible returned responses:
    * **200 OK**: The data import process started successfully and returns the following properties:

>         ```json

Reviewer 2: We can refine this further based on the latest state of the session.
It could be in CREATED or IN_PROGRESS or in COMPLETED status under non-error flow.

        {
            "id": "${sessionId}",
            "identitySourceId": "${identitySourceId}",
            "status": "COMPLETED"
        }
        ```

    * **400 Bad Request**: Unknown Import Session ID
    * **403 Access Denied**

5. [Close the Import Session](/docs/reference/api/xaas/)

    Use the DELETE operation to close the Import Session and delete all the bulk user data associated with the session.

    ```bash
    curl -i -X DELETE \
      'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/identity-sources/${identitySourceId}/sessions/${sessionId} \
    -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 
    ```

    Possible returned responses:
    * **204 No content**: The Import Session closed successfully and contains the `CANCELLED` status. All bulk user data is removed from the session.
    * **400 Bad Request**: Unknown Import Session ID

>     * **403 Access Denied**

Reviewer 2: Same as above.

Author: Updated text

### Bulk deactivate user data

When users have been deactivated or deleted from your HR source, you need to reflect that status in Okta. Okta does not delete user profile objects, it deactivates the users that are no longer active. Use these steps to deactivate a set of user data profiles from Okta.  

1. [Create an Import Session](/docs/reference/api/xaas/):

>    ```bash

Reviewer 2: Client needs to use /bulk-delete API for this.

Author: Yes, it's in the next step. I'm repeating the create an import session operation for this flow.

    * Use the `sessionId` property value returned from the created Import Session to make the [Load user data profile](/docs/reference/api/xaas) request.
    * Obtain the unique user identifiers from your HR source and add each `externalId` value into the `profiles` array. You can have up to a maximum of 200 user IDs in the array.
    * Set `entityName` to `USERS`. Only user import is supported.
    * If you need to deactivate more users, make another [Load user data profile](/docs/reference/api/xaas) request with the same `sessionId` value. You can make up to 50 load user data requests for one Import Session.

    ```bash
    curl -i -X POST \
      'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/identity-sources/${identitySourceId}/sessions/${sessionId}/bulk-delete' \
    -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
        "entityName": "USERS",
        "profiles": [
          {
            "externalId": "${userId1}",
          },
          {
            "externalId": "${userId2}"
          },
          {
            "externalId": "${userId3}",
          }
        ]
    }'
    ```

    Possible returned responses:

>     * **202 ???** : The bulk import was successful. A `batchId` value is returned.

Reviewer 2: batchId is not present any more.

Author: Removed. Thanks

---

> title: Build an Anything-as-a-Source custom client integration

Author: I asked Karthik Reddy on slack and he says the feature name is still "Anything-as-a-Source".

* `/bulk-delete`: Deactivate the user profiles in the bulk-load request

You can load up to 200 KB of data in a single bulk-load (`/bulk-upsert` or `/bulk-delete`) request for an Identity Source Session. This equates to 200 user profiles. To load more user profiles, you can make multiple bulk-load requests to the same session. The maximum number of bulk-load requests for a session is 50. If you exhaust the maximum number of bulk-load requests and you still need to load more user profiles, then create another Identity Source Session object for the additional user profiles. Keep in mind that you can only load user data to an Identity Source Session with the `CREATED` status.

> **Note:** Only `"importType": "INCREMENTAL"` is currently supported for an Identity Source Session.

### Bulk user profile data

The bulk-load request contains an array of external [Identity Source User Profile For Upsert](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#identity-source-user-profile-for-upsert-object) or [Identity Source User Profile For Delete](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#identity-source-user-profile-for-upsert-object) objects that contain the following:

> * `externalId`: The unique identifier from the HR source and is assumed to be immutable (never updated for a specific user). This value is used as a key to determine if a new user needs to be created or if an existing user needs to be updated.

Author: This is something the system does (Okta). If Okta finds the same key in its source, it will do an update. If Okta doesn't find the externalId key, it will add a new user profile.

    -d '{
        "entityType": "USERS",
        "profiles": [
          {
            "externalId": "${userId1}"
          },
          {
            "externalId": "${userId2}"
          },
          {
            "externalId": "${userId3}"
          }
        ]
      }'
    ```

    > **Note:** If the `externalId` of the user profile in the bulk-delete data isn't matched to a user in Okta, then the user profile is silently ignored.

    Possible returned responses:
    * **202 Accepted**: The bulk delete operation was successful.
    * **400 Bad Request**: There is no payload in the bulk-delete request.
    * **401 Unauthorized**: The API key isn't valid.

3. [Trigger the data import process](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#trigger-an-identity-source-session):

    After you loaded all the user IDs, start the processing job to deactivate users from the Okta Universal Directory:

    ```bash
    curl -i -X POST \
      'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/identity-sources/${identitySourceId}/session/${sessionId}/start-import' \
    -H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json'
    ```

    Possible returned responses:

>     * **200 OK**: The data import process started successfully and returns the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **200 OK**: The data import process started successfully and returned the following properties:
```

* **401 Unauthorized**: The API key isn't valid.

### Monitor Identity Source Sessions

To monitor Identity Source Session activity for an identity source, you can use either [Retrieve active Identity Source Sessions](#retrieve-active-identity-source-sessions) or [Retrieve an Identity Source Session by ID](#retrieve-an-identity-source-session-by-id) requests to retrieve session properties.

#### Retrieve active Identity Source Sessions

The [List active Identity Source Sessions](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#list-active-identity-source-sessions) request returns a list of active Identity Source Sessions for an identity source to determine which sessions are currently processing and actively being worked on. An Identity Source Session is considered active if it has the `CREATED` or `TRIGGERED` status. Data processing completed for an identity source if no active session is returned (since a session that contains the `COMPLETED` status isn't considered active).

```bash
curl -i -X GET \
  'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/identity-sources/${identitySourceId}/sessions' \
-H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json'
```

Possible returned responses:

> * **200 OK**: The request was successful and returns an empty list of active sessions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **200 OK**: The request was successful and returned an empty list of active sessions:
```

  ```json
  []
  ```

> * **200 OK**: The request was successful and returns a list of active sessions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **200 OK**: The request was successful and returned a list of active sessions:
```

  ```json
  [
    {
      "id": "{sessionId1}",
      "identitySourceId": "{identitySourceId}",
      "status": "CREATED",
      "importType": "INCREMENTAL"
    },
    {
      "id": "{sessionId2}",
      "identitySourceId": "{identitySourceId}",
      "status": "TRIGGERED",
      "importType": "INCREMENTAL"
    }
  ]
  ```

* **401 Unauthorized**: The API key isn't valid.

> **Note:** Alternatively, you can use the [Import Monitoring](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-view-import-monitoring-dashboard) page from the Okta Admin Console to monitor the import process job. When the job completes, a summary of the import process appears in the Import Monitoring dashboard.

#### Retrieve an Identity Source Session by ID

> The [Retrieve an Identity Source Session](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#retrieve-an-identity-source-session) request returns the Identity Source Session properties for a specific session ID. Data processing completed if the returned session status is `COMPLETED`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Retrieve an Identity Source Session](/docs/reference/api/xaas/#retrieve-an-identity-source-session) request returns the Identity Source Session properties for a specific session ID. Data processing is completed if the returned session status is `COMPLETED`.
```

```bash
curl -i -X GET \
  'https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/identity-sources/${identitySourceId}/sessions/${sessionId}' \
-H 'Authorization: SSWS ${apiKey}' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json'
```

Possible returned responses:

> * **200 OK**: The data import process completed successfully and returns the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **200 OK**: The data import process completed successfully and returned the following properties:
```

**Learning outcomes**

> * Learn how to use the Identity Sources API to manage a Custom Identity Source integration with Okta.

Author: API name: "Identity Sources API"
Feature name: "Anything-as-a-Source"
- I'm using "Anything-as-a-Source integration" or "Anything-as-a-Source feature", unless Karthik wants to change this?

> * Learn how to use the Identity Sources API to manage an Anything-as-a-Source integration with Okta.

Author: I'm fine to change this, but please confirm with PM (Karthik Reddy). I asked PM and PMM yesterday and they told me the feature is still named Anything-as-a-Source.
References to the API was changed to "Identity Sources API".

**What you need**

* [Okta Developer Edition organization](https://developer.okta.com/signup/)
   * [A Custom Identity Source](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-anything-as-a-source) integration configured in your Okta org
      >  **Note:** Your org needs to have the Identity Source Apps feature enabled. Contact your Okta account team to enable this feature. <!-- IDENTITY_SOURCE_APPS FF needs to be enabled-->
   * [An Okta API token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/) to make secure API calls

* An HR source from which you want to synchronize user data with Okta
* A custom client to add Identity Sources API integration

---

## Overview

> The Okta Anything-as-a-Source (XaaS) integration provides your organization with the ability to connect any HR source to your Okta org. The HR source acts as a source of truth, and users are pushed and mapped to Okta user profiles in the Okta Universal Directory. There are two methods to implement the XaaS integration:

Reviewer 2: Identity Source integration

Author: See comment above. Thanks
